
## CP-MolGen
CP-MolGen is a Molecular Structure Generator based on Constraint Programming (CP).

## How to install
First, make sure you have the java runtime environment 32 bit in your machine. 
Else download and install it from here if you want https://filehippo.com/fr/download_jre_32/download/fa342e4a2f83757be7bd6c1d285b176c/

1) Download the repository CP-MolGen-master.zip and extract the folder named CP-MolGen-master
2) Go to:   CP-MolGen/dist 
3) If you are using a 64-bit machine, please associate a 32-bit JRE to open CP-MolGen.jar
   right click -> properties -> opens with (change) -> look for another app -> choose " C:\Program Files (x86)\Java\jdk***\jre\bin\java.exe "
3) Open there the command line interpreter (cmd) and put the following commmand:  java -jar CP-MolGen.jar
 (or simply double click)


## How to Use

- Authentification Step :
   login = admin & pwd= maetseb
 
********************************************
- Step 1: Molecular Formula (MF):
       in the form please enter the molecular formula. 
       Precisely, the symbols as well as the number of atoms for each symbol.
       Validate the form and click next.

********************************************
- Step 2: Multiplicity and Hybridation States of the corresponding:
    Here you will find the list of all atoms numbered from 1 in order.
    For each atom, the Valency of each atom will be automatically calculated and generated by CP-MolGen. 
    Contrary to valency, you have to specify respectively the Multiplicity and the Hybridization States.
    The multiplicity of an atom (Mult) is equal to the number of hydrogens connected to that atom (So, less or equal to Val).
    
    
    Hybridation is closely related to the type of the chemical bonds in which the atom is involved. There are three types of chemical bonds: simple bonds, double bonds and triple bonds.
    An atom can be in one of the following hybridization states: sp1, sp2 or sp3. 
    An atom is in the sp1 hybridization state if it participates in a triple bond or in two double bonds. 
    An atom is in the sp2 hybridization state if it participates in exactly one double bond and eventually in some simple bonds. 
    An atom is in the sp3 hybridization state if it participates in simple bonds only. 
   
   
********************************************
- Step 3: Chemical Correlations between atoms: 
     Here you will specify one by one all the correraltions.
     CP-MolGen is actualy limited to two bonds due to COSY, HMQC/HSQC Spectra.
      A correlation equal to 1 implies that atoms i and j are directly linked.
      A correlation equal to 2 implies that atoms i and j are directly linked Or both linked to a common intermediate atom.
      
      
********************************************      
- Step 4: Imposed and Forbidden Cycles:
   The challenging task of imposing and forbidding certain predefined cycles (or backbone of the molecule) 
   to appear in the target molecular structure can also be considered by the CP-MolGen Program.      

********************************************      
- Step 4: Last Step: The Generation of Molecular Structure
   Here you will have the choice to generate either a single solution or all the solutions.
   After validating the generation, you can see the adjacency matrix obtained.
   If you click on the button (containing a molecule drawing) to the right of the form, 
   CP-MolGen will generate the structure of the target molecule.

********************************************
      

  
   
    

    
    
    
    
   
